what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose if you
don't know who I am my name is Nasir I'm
a second year medical student at King's
College London and I make these YouTube
videos to try and help you guys in the
application process for a medical school
today I'm gonna be going over section 2
of the Bema more specifically the
section on biology I'm gonna give you
guys a couple of general tips about the
section and then we're gonna go straight
into answering questions live on camera
so that you guys can see my thought
process and how it is that I actually
solved the questions as I'm thinking
through them if you guys want to see
more videos like this where I go through
the different sections of the Bema be
sure to leave a like on this video
subscribe to the channel and you'll be
notified when I release those videos
before we begin I again want to say
thank you to modify for sponsoring this
video if you guys want to check them out
or any of the resources you can check
the links in description down below
it'll take you to their website and you
can look at their UK count Bheema and
personal statement services ok so first
things first beam at section 2 is all
about the sciences you have biology
physics chemistry and also some maths
involved today I'm gonna only be
covering biology so biology is probably
going to be the easiest of all the
sciences for you guys because chances
are if you're applying to medicine and
taking the Bema you already have a
genuine interest in biology and you
probably really like studying it and
learning it regarding the content that's
gonna come up in the biology section
you've probably already done all of it
in your I GCSE or a level and IB
curriculums if you guys want I'm gonna
leave a link in the description with the
full learning outcomes for each of the
science sections published by the
official beam up board you guys can
check it out in the description down
below and if you want you can match your
knowledge to every single section on
there alright now let's move on to the
general tips for the beam up biology
section tip number one is that I don't
only have any tips regarding biology I
don't think there are actually many
general tips that I can give you guys
because most of it is just gonna be
memorization and recalled based you
either know the answer or you don't
there's very little to work through
which is a big contrast to the chemistry
and the physics portions of this exam
but what I will say is that generally
for the science sections you have about
60 seconds per question and you
definitely want to fly through the
biology questions because they're gonna
be easier for you and you're gonna be
able to complete them in a shorter
amount of time and then you can spend
the extra time that you have on the more
tricky questions for maths physics and
chemistry so make sure you know your
biology really well so that you can
answer all the biology questions with
and accuracy and know that you have
those marks safely tucked away in the
bank all right now without further ado
let's jump straight into solving
questions live on camera so here I am on
the medified Bheema online course I'm
gonna click on the question Bank I'm
gonna select only biology questions and
start practice there so I've also got a
pen and paper with me in case I need to
write or draw anything down and yeah
let's get started in a set of genetic
crosses the offspring produced showed
the same phenotype ratio of 951 which of
the following statements could be true
two genes each with two alleles were
studied all parents were hetero some
offspring had a phenotype different from
the parents some offspring had a
phenotype the same as the parents okay
the last two can be true two teams with
two hours were studied that can also be
true all parents where heterozygous
doesn't have to be the case
what does I think it does I'm gonna go
with one two three and four all right
awesome my genetics memory isn't exactly
a hundred percent clear but I do
remember this where you have the double
heterozygous crosses make sure you know
this stuff for the exam sample of DNA
contains 32% cytosine which I'm sure the
percentage of adding me into the cycle
okay so you guys should know that
guanine binds the cytosine thymine binds
to adenine and the way that I remember
that is the acronym G cat like a cat
who's a gangster GC goes together in a t
goes together anyway so if there's 32%
cytosine then that means that there's
also 32% guanine which makes a total of
64 percent G on C which means there is a
remaining six 36% of a and T 36 percent
divided by two to just find out what the
a is is going to be 18 that should be
two disease-free cells x and y we're
studied which option correctly
identifies saw X as a typical plant cell
and so Y as a typical prokaryote so X is
a plant and Y is a prokaryote so
prokaryote means without a nucleus
chlorophylls president plants sub septal
to penicillin is true okay because it's
an antibiotic okay that's fine
plasmids president no almost there
selectively perrineville clanking -
president cycle as president yeah i
would go to the road one okay a semi
permeable fluid-filled Sonic's placed in
container of water 30 minutes later the
sack has increased to 1.3 times its
original size which of the four names is
correct
the water has moved up at the
concentration gradient no water always
moves down a concentration gradient the
fluid in the sack is a high
PO tonic solution which means it has
less solute so more water if that was
the case then what it would leave it so
it must be hypertonic awesome suppose
you have red flowers and white flowers
the red flowers have the inter power are
and the wine one time are there these
are cost bread you then be the offspring
from the first cost with the f1 what
ratio phenotypes would you expect to end
up with so let's draw the thing real
quick
ar-ar-ar-ar you're gonna get a hundred
percent large or small arm then you read
too large or small ours together and you
get the following you have the classic
one in four is recessive and one is
dominant and then the other two are a
recessive and the dominant allele so 110
red flowers all with a heterozygous
phoenix-like know hundreds and red
flowers fifty percent with him
homozygous phenotype know seventy five
percent red flowers or with a
heterozygous genotype know one of them
is homozygous seventy-five red flowers
of which one-third having a homozygous
genotype true and two-thirds I mean
heterozygous true and 25% white flowers
true this is the classic punnett square
below shows DNA microarray I don't
remember doing DNA microarrays in high
school each spawn label ones forked is a
different DNA probe sample urgently with
a sequence where law is washed over
first naval combat in this post DNA on
this ball the spot will for us which the
sponsor would show positive signal
because it fluoresces so the DNA probe
has to be complimentary to this so what
we're looking for here is a G ATT 80g a
tt 18 so that's no we're here we're
looking for a CTA 80 a CTA 80 a so 2 is
good 3 we're looking for an ACC a GT a
CC a GT so 3 is good as well is there a
2 & 3
okay so I don't need to check for
because there's no 2 3 & 4 options but I
know that 2 & 3 are definitely correct
so B must be the answer
awesome in the process of ventilation
the following occur pressure in the
thorax decreases volume of thorax
decreases diaphragm goes upwards which
of these occurred during exhalation ok
exhalation
so volume of thorax decreases pressure
in the thorax increases because pressure
always flows from high pressure to low
pressure
so if air is moving out that means the
pressure in your chest is higher and the
pressure outside the atmospheric
pressure is lower so this is wrong so
too is correct
so we're between a B and E diaphragm
goes up that's true so 2 & 3 are correct
and I know that there's no 2 3 & 4
options so must be B you guys see why
that's the case I know 2 & 3 are correct
and then I look at the answers I and I
don't see a 2 3 & 4 then I don't even
need to look out for I already know that
2 & 3 are definitely correct and there's
no option to choose 2 3 & 4 so I know
that the answer must be B without even
considering what number 4 is of course
you read number 4 it's not to be wrong
but you don't need to anyway
which of the following does not contain
amino acids glycogen is a sugar it is
not made up of amino acids simple simple
simple you want to know your basic
building blocks proteins sugars and fats
or lipids for students record different
structures that you thought were found
the healthy animal so song - go back to
your song which students gave totally
correct answers animal DNA found in
nucleus true back to your cell cell wall
present that's true one is correct
animal cell
so while present that's wrong
mitochondria present true DNA found in
nucleus false DNA found in nucleus true
plasmids presents true so only one and
four boom-boom-boom-boom
the next question the diagram shows a
section of rough endoplasmic reticulum
which answer correctly identifies the
substances associated structures 1 & 2
so structure 1 is a ribosome which means
it'll have definitely amino acids and
tRNA interesting ok so let's see what
number 2 is DNA or polypeptides I'm
gonna go with polypeptides for the
structure of the endoplasmic reticulum
and I'm gonna go with something related
to do with translation in number 1 so
it's seen okay cool so I know that
basically amino acids are also involved
in the ribosome obviously but I know
that DNA probably isn't the structural
thing of the endoplasmic reticulum so by
process of elimination
can kind of come to be in a dihybrid
cross between two hetero individuals
which is the most likely combination of
their offspring it's gonna be the hetero
hetero one this one here so yeah you
guys really need to learn how to draw up
these these squares clearly questions on
genetics and cell biology are coming up
quite often so make sure that you guys
focus on those two as well which of the
following cannot occur as a result of a
random process genetic drift definitely
does mutations does an artificial
selection does not so three only yeah so
genetic drift is when random changes in
alleles occur and then mutations are
when specific changes in DNA bases occur
and these both have been randomly which
of the following cell organelles can
produce protein containing v sickles
Golgi apparatus endoplasmic reticulum
and ribosome protein containing v
sickles I'm gonna go with Golgi for sure
ribosome does not produce protein
containing musicals and no plasmic
reticulum can things can bud off from
there so I'm gonna go with one and two
only awesome which of the following
crosses is most likely to produce
offspring of genotype B pww this here
will produce a lot of those because
you're gonna get one dominant one
recessive one dominant one recessive
over and over and yeah you guys can read
the explanation here but Stephanie right
clearly definitely know your genetics
genetics has come up so much and so has
cell biology so make sure you guys know
that which of the following is not true
of human hormones they are all released
by ducts that is not true because we
know some hormones are released for
example from the hypothalamus and also
from the anterior pituitary and those
are not along ducts those are directly
into the blood stream so I don't even
need to read the rest of them I know
that that's true but for example you
guys can now read these statements and
you know that these statements are 100%
true so you're making notes you probably
want to write those down which one of
the following statements of a sexual
sexual reproduction is correct only the
gametes undergo meiosis and sexual
reproduction compared with both cell
types and sexual reproduction mitosis
leads to sperm formation nope mutations
only occurrence sexual reproduction not
asexual nope some organisms carry out
both asexual and sexual and maybe
variation is only required for sexual
production not for asexual nope I'm
gonna go with D I'm not entirely sure
what a is saying I could probably read
it again and find out but I
no that is correct so why waste my time
you want to get all the answers and move
on with the questions pick the best
pairings of enzymes and their optimum pH
levels pepsin is a is an enzyme found in
the stomach so it needs a low pH so 67
is way too high so a is wrong lipase
released from the pancreas needs about
this page so that's fine amylase this is
way too low amylase is released in the
mouth and that's way too low it needs to
be higher amylase way too low again
pepsin this is appropriate this but I'm
looking for something a bit better
emily's this is good for the mouth
pepsin good for the stomach lipase I
think this is better as well because
life is also mixed with bicarbonate
released from the pancreas which helps
increase the pH so I think he is gonna
be the correct answer
awesome awesome awesome the next
question came the graph shows how enzyme
activity varies with temperature the
ultimate page Bert's enzyme is 8 then
you suppose count for coding pages is
true today if they were gathered other
page of six what would happen so this
shows that the rate of reaction
increases with temperature and it's sort
of denatures at about 35 37 degrees so
body temperature if this was recorded at
a pH of 6 which is more acidic it would
likely perform worse but with this graph
of temperature what would happen yeah I
think it's temperature scale would be
the same but its rate would be reduced
so the peak of the graph showing rates
would be lower but how it is treated
with temperature variation is likely
going to be the same because an enzymes
temperature related properties and an
enzymes pH related properties are going
to be separate of course they're linked
in some ways but for the most part you
can separate the two which the
components of DNA listed below are found
on the inside of a DNA double helix that
would be Tyrion and pyrimidine bases so
3 & 4 only boom-boom-boom easy money
Thanks here's a simplified diagram of
the heart identify the correct passages
of blood to the heart this is something
that does come up many times so make
sure you guys know your cell biology
your genetics your circulation and your
respiratory systems so how does the
blood flow in the heart so of course we
know that venous return blood comes from
the right side of the body up through
the inferior inferior vena cava and the
superior vena cava and enters the right
atrium D where it is pushed down into
the right ventricle it leaves the right
ventricle and goes up the pulmonary
artery to the lungs the blood becomes
oxygenated and it comes back down
through the pulmonary
beans which enter on the left bend the
left atrium excuse me f goes to the left
ventricle and then gets pumped out
through the aorta so we're looking like
something ADH ADH b FG you know GD H B a
F G C D F G boom awesome the increase in
the frequency of one phenotype in a wild
population of butterflies could be due
to an advantageous mutation true
increased reproductive success of
individuals with a phenotype true and a
change in the environment hold true are
possible what should happen when blood
capillary glucose levels rise obviously
when you have increased blood glucose in
the blood you're gonna have a release of
insulin in order to take that glucose
and store it in cells so increased blood
insulin concentration true decreased
glycogen stores no you're gonna want to
increase your glycogen stores you're
gonna take that glucose and store it as
glycogen so one so only one so far
decreased by dancing conservation no
increase glycogen stores so it so it's
one and four awesome
ok guys I think that's where I'm gonna
call it for today having how to look at
these questions it seems that very
clearly genetics cell biology
respiration and circulation is what
comes up and very very often so I think
you want to make sure that you know
those specific topics in great great
detail obviously don't forget about
everything else too but you want to
focus on those topics ok guys I hope
this was able to show you my thought
process when going through the questions
I hope you were able to follow what I
was doing if you guys enjoyed this video
make sure you leave a like on the video
make sure you subscribe to my channel if
you want to see more videos from me and
leave me a comment down below
I mean what section you would like me to
do next alright guys thanks so much for
watching good luck with your be my
preparation and I'll see you in the next
one peace